A young Tommy Jarvis (Corey Feldman) stumbles upon a graveyard on a rainy night. Two graverobbers, named Neil (Todd Bryant) and Les (Curtis Conaway), are digging up the corpse of Jason Voorhees. Jason rises from the grave and Tommy witnesses Jason murder Neil and Les, and then Jason advances towards Tommy.The graveyard sequence turns out to be a dream and an older Tommy (John Shepherd) awakens from the dream in the back of a van. Tommy has been shifted from various mental institutions after killing the mass murderer Jason Voorhees four years earlier, who attacked him and Tommy's sister Trish and murdered his mother. Tommy still hallucinates the hockey-mask wearing killer and it is unclear what happened to Trish.Tommy arrives at a secluded halfway house for troubled teens in the woods of southern California, called Pinehurst Halfway House. The house is owned by Dr. Matt Letter (Richard Young) and Tommy is shown to his room by supervisor Pam Roberts (Melanie Kinnaman). There, he meets a young boy Reggie (Shavar Ross) living at the house whose grandfather George (Vernon Washington) works as the camp cook. The other teens at the halfway house include nymphomaniac lovers Tina and Eddie (Debi Sue Voorhees) and (John Robert Dixon), redhead Robin (Juliette Cummins), firey-tempered Goth chick Violet (Tiffany Helm), and the shy and stuttering Jake (Jerry Pavlon).Meanwhile, a teenager at the halfway house, the troubled and overweight Joey (Dominick Brascia), is killed with an axe by another teenager at the house, the hot-headed Vic (Mark Venturini). After Vic is arrested, paramedics arrive to take Joey's disembered body away. One paramedic, named Duke (Caskey Swaim), jokes, but another medic, Roy Burns (Dick Wieand), is obviously saddened by the death.While the police and forensic people continue to comb the scene and question the witnesses, two redneck hicks that live near the halfway house, Ethel Hubbard (Carol Locatell) and her retarded son Junior (Ron Sloan) threaten Dr. Matt Letter to shut the place down if the teens don't quit sneaking onto their property.That night, two punks Vinnie (Anthony Barrile) and Pete (Corey Parker) are murdered by someone unseen after their car stalls, Vinnie has a lit road flare shoved in his mouth and Pete has his throat slit.The following night, a local named Billy (Bob DeSimone) is waiting for his girlfriend Lana (Rebecca Wood) to finish her shift at a diner and is killed with an axe to the head. Lana comes outside only to be killed with an axe to the stomach by the same unseen killer.The next day, Tina and Eddie go off into the woods to have sex. Ethel's farmhand Raymond (Sonny Shields) is killed while spying on Tina and Eddie. After sex, Eddie retreats to wash off in the creek and Tina is murdered when a pair of hedge shears plunge into her eyes. Eddie returns and finds her dead, only to have his head crushed against a tree by a leather strap.That evening, Pam, Tommy and Reggie go to a nearby trailer park to see Reggie's older brother Demon (Miguel A. Núñez, Jr.) and his girlfriend Anita (Jere Fields). Tommy wonders off and gets in a fight with Junior and runs off, forcing Pam and Reggie to leave. Pam leaves Reggie at the halfway house and then goes to search for Tommy. Demon and Anita are murdered, Anita has her throat slit and Demon is stabbed with a spear while inside an outhouse.At the Hubbard farm, Junior races back to the Hubbard House, crying to Ethel about what Tommy did but the unseen killer murders him by decapitating him with a cleaver as he rides on his motorcycle. The unseen killer then murders Ethel with the same meat cleaver to her head who then falls, face first, into a pot of boiling stew.Back at the halfway house, Reggie falls asleep on the living room couch as it starts to rain outside. The unseen killer quietly enters the house and quickly murders Jake with a meat cleaver, impales Robin from underneath the bed with a machete, and then enters Violet's bedroom and murders her as well. Reggie awakens and finds the dead bodies in Tommy's room. Pam arrives and also sees the bodies. They try to flee, but encounter the killer, who appears to be Jason risen from the dead (who finally reveals himself by making a spectacular brava appearance by bursting into the house through the back door). Pam and Reggie flee the halfway house and are separated in the woods. Pam finds Duke's body with his throat slit in his ambulance, and Matt's body nailed to a tree with a spike in his forehead. Pam also finds George dead with his eyes gouged out.The chase finally leads to the barn where Reggie rams Jason with a bulldozer. But Jason rises and attacks them inside the barn. Pam fends Jason off with a chainsaw and retreats to the upper loft with Reggie. Tommy appears, and is stabbed by Jason. Still alive, Tommy stabs Jason in the leg with a switchblade and climbs up to the loft as well, but passes out, severely wounded.The wounded Jason climbs into the loft and, after ignoring Tommy's unconcious body, finds Pam and Reggie, but Reggie manages to knock Jason off the hayloft. As they embrace, Jason pops back up and tries to drag Reggie off the loft, but Tommy musters enough strength to seize the machete and hack Jason in the hand. His mask falls off & sends him falling down onto sharp farm equipment. The mask and prosthetic face are removed to reveal Roy Burns, the paramedic, as the killer.In the hospital, the local sheriff explains to Pam that Joey, the boy who was killed with the axe was Roy's son and it drove him to go mad, dress up as Jason and go on a killing spree. Pam goes to check on Tommy, who is asleep, but suddenly, Tommy pops up and stabs Pam with a boning knife. It turns out to be Tommy's dream and Pam comes in, only to see the window broken and Tommy stands behind her wielding a knife and wearing a hockey mask.....