Bogart is Lt. Commander Phillip Queeg assigned to take over a WW II naval ship whose former captain has allowed discipline to dissolve while still maintaining a good record for the ship. William Keith (Robert Francis) is a newly minted ensign out of Princeton University whose family is wealthy and connected but he welcomes the chance to make it on his own and prove himself as an officer. He bumps heads with the former apparently lax captain and welcomes Queeg's strictness. He joins Lt. Maryk (Van Johnson) a by the book executive officer and Lt. Keefer (Fred MacMurray) the sarcastic communications officer who is writing a novel. lt. Queeg is appalled by the shabbiness of the crew and immediately sets out to straighten them up. While berating a crewman the ship botches a target practice assignment by cutting their own towline. Bogart is called on the carpet and has to lie to cover himself. In the next mission the ship is assigned is to escort an amphibious landing force into battle but Queeg pulls the ship out too soon much to the chagrin of the crew who suspect cowardice on Queeg's part. Queeg then conducts an elaborate investigation of stolen mess strawberries prompting the officers to suspect that he might be mentally unfit to command. Keith and Maryk are convinced by Keefer to see Admiral Halsey but back out when Keefer chickens out. After Queeg becomes mentally paralyzed during a typhoon Lt. Maryk and Ensign Keith are forced to relieve Queeg of his command fearing the ship will sink. Maryk and Keith are subsequently tried under court martial and are reluctantly defended by Lt. Barney Greenwald (Jose Ferrer). Lt. Keefer refuses to testify on behalf Maryk and Keith to protect himself. The trial goes poorly for the defendants until Queeg is called to testify an and breaks down mentally under Greenwald's questioning. Both Maryk and Keith are found not guilty of mutiny. After the trial Greenwald confronts Keefer and blames him for inciting the mutiny while throwing a drink in his face to humiliate him. Keefer refuses the challenge.