Nino Brown (Wesley Snipes) is an up-and-coming drug pusher, and when he gets into a new drug, decides to take over an entire apartment building in Harlem called The Carter for his base of operations. His right-hand men, Gee Money (Allen Payne) and Duh Man (Bill Nunn) go about getting cooperation through violence and coercion. Together they drive out any protesting tenants and other crime lords.Detective Stone (Mario Van Peebles) wants to bring Nino to justice, but no one on the police force is crazy enough to go against Nino. Except Scotty Appleton (Ice-T). Stone convinces Scotty to infiltrate Nino's organization, with the help of another burned-out cop, Nick Paretti (Judd Nelson).Frankie Needles (Anthony DeSando) visits Nino to deliver a message from the mob - Nino isn't paying the percentage any more. Nino sends him away scornfully, and Frankie advises Don Armeteo (John Aprea), the mob boss. Meanwhile, Scotty and Peretti watch Nino giving out food to the poor, including Pookie (Chris Rock). Scotty recruits Pookie, weaning him off crack and rehabilitating him. Pookie explains how to get into the hotel and the setup for distributing crack. Park (Russell Wong) has some hi-tech toys for Pookie to surveil the premises.Nino is celebrating his success and expressing his friendship with Gee Money. However, he has eyes for Gee Money's girlfriend, Uniqua (Tracy Camilla Johns). Nino's girl Selina (Michael Michele) becomes jealous.Pookie gets inside, doing menial jobs at first. However Gee Money doesn't trust him fully. Pookie gets into the drug distribution area, but starts sneaking drugs and becomes addicted again. Gee Money finds the surveillance device and realizes he's a plant. Gee Money evacuates the area and sets explosives on Pookie to destroy the building. Scotty and his men enter and try and find evidence, then defuse the bomb, but Pookie is dead.Nino is enraged, and threatens Gee Money. Scotty blames himself for Pookie's death, and vows to continue the investigation, despite Stone's orders. Peretti agrees to help. They enlist Frankie to arrange a meet Gee Money, posing as big-time buyers. Scotty gets in with Nino, even protecting him from an irate man (Bill Cobbs). He seeds doubt into Nino's mind about Gee Money.Peretti breaks into Nino's safe during a wedding and finds financial records on disk. The Italian mob shows up at the wedding & tries to kill Nino, and he uses a child as a shield to escape. Keisha is killed during the attack, and a war between Nino's Cash Money Brothers (CMB) and Don Armeteo's gang erupts.Scotty and Peretti meet with Stone and arrange to set Nino up. During the deal, Kareem (Christopher Williams) identifies Scotty, and a shootout ensues. Park is killed, then Duh Man, and Peretti saves Scotty's life.Gee Money and Nino meet later, and Gee accuses Nino of forgetting their friendship. Nino regretfully kills him. Scotty and Peretti track him down and attack. Scotty beats him up and arrests him at the feet of an old man (Bill Cobbs) who'd been trying to get the city police to stop Nino in the old Carter headquarters.Nino stands trial and accuses Kareem of being the head of CMB. He pleads to a lighter sentence, but is killed by the Old Man as he leaves the courtroom. Scotty and Peretti leave, satisfied, and the credits roll.