On a street in Paris, during the Middle Ages, a Gypsy named Clopin performs puppet shows for children. Before starting his next show, he draws attention to the bells ringing in the nearby Cathedral of Notre Dame. He offers to tell the tale of the mysterious bell-ringer--who he is, and how he came to the cathedral:Twenty years ago, on a cold winter night, four Gypsies sneak into Paris on a hired riverboat; the Gypsies were persecuted in Paris at the time(and possibly all over France, or Europe in general), so the only way to enter the city without being arrested was to sneak in. These particular Gypsies consisted of two men, one woman, and her child (it is implied that one of the men is the husband and father to the last two mentioned). Upon landing, however, the group is ambushed and arrested.The man leading the arrest is Judge Claude Frollo, the Minister of Justice. He is the primary instigator of the persecution and oppression against the Gypsies in Paris, claiming that their ways will corrupt the other citizens. He arrests the men, but when he orders his troops to take the bundle in the woman's arms (mistakenly assuming them to be stolen goods), she runs. She makes it to the doors of the Cathedral of Notre Dame to claim sanctuary, but since it is night, the doors are locked. Before they can be opened, Frollo catches up with her. He wrenches the bundle from her grasp, kicking her while doing so; she falls back and hits her head on the stone steps, killing her.The baby starts to cry. When Frollo pulls back the cloth surrounding him, he gasps in horror, proclaiming the baby to be a monster (the baby is never shown). He nearly drops the infant down a well, but he is stopped by the Archdeacon of the cathedral, who condemns his killing of the woman, and his attempt to kill the baby. Though Frollo tries to justify his actions, deceiving himself, the Archdeacon reminds him that God, the angels, etc, are fully aware of what he has done--as much as if the statues of the cathedral were alive and aware of what they just witnessed. Being fearful for his salvation, he asks what he needs to do, and the Archdeacon tells him to raise the child as if he were his own. He reluctantly agrees, but only on the condition that the child lives up in the bell towers of Notre Dame, away from public view. He wonders how he might be of use to him in the future.Clopin reveals the child's name, given by Frollo: Quasimodo, which is Latin for &quot;half-formed.&quot; He concludes his tale about &quot;a man and a monster&quot; by asking, &quot;Who is the monster, and who is the man?&quot;Meanwhile, we see Quasimodo up on the roof of Notre Dame, and he is shown to be severely deformed, the most prominent feature being his hunched back. He speaks with three gargoyles, named Victor, Hugo, and LaVerne (who are presumed to be real and alive in this synopsis; it can be argued that they are part of his imagination, but there are certain scenes which imply they are more than that, as well as the Direct-to-Video sequel). He laments that Frollo will not allow him to attend the Festival of Fools later that day (or even leave the bell towers on any other day), but the gargoyles convince him to go out in disguise.Before he can enact his plan, Frollo arrives (and the gargoyles revert to inanimate stone). We can see that he has lied to Quasimodo all his life, as he reminds him how his mother supposedly abandoned him as a baby, and he was the only one who took him in. (Ironically, that's what happened in the book) --To Be Continued