In ancient Egypt, a Hebrew slave settlement is raided by the Pharaoh Seti's men, who slaughter the male Hebrew infants while the adult men are away enduring hard labor. However, a Hebrew woman with her baby and her two older children steal away to the Nile River, where the mother sets the baby adrift in a reed basket, hoping and praying this will save her child. The reed basket eventually makes its way to the Pharaoh's palace, where his wife finds the baby inside. The Queen looks at the baby with love and compassion, chooses to keep him, and names him Moses. Moses' sister, having followed the basket, sees this, and prays that someday Moses will come back to deliver them from slavery.Many years later (about twenty years, give or take), Moses and his elder brother Rameses have become rather reckless young men, much to the disdain of their father. After damaging a temple that was under renovation via an especially foolhardy chariot race, Pharaoh reprimands his sons--especially Rameses since he is next in line for the throne--and declares how he worries that &quot;one weak link&quot; could ruin the family dynasty. Rameses leaves in indignation and shame, and Moses asks Pharaoh why he is so hard on Rameses, especially since he knew Moses was the most responsible for the damage. He replies that since Rameses was the next Pharaoh, he needs to be trained to never turn away from his responsibilities and traditions, even if Moses is the one trying to lead him astray. Moses declares his confidence to Rameses' seriousness and devotion, and tells Seti that he just needs an opportunity to prove himself.Moses goes to Rameses and tries to comfort him by sarcastically pointing out how it would be impossible for one man, even a Pharaoh, to ruin the Egyptian empire. Rameses resists his efforts at first, but eventually gives in.Later in the evening, a banquet is held in which Pharaoh (having taken Moses' suggestion seriously) names Rameses as Prince Regent. Rameses, taking one of his rings, gives it to Moses and joyfully names his younger brother as Royal Chief Architect. At Moses' and Seti's request for tribute for Rameses, the high priests Hotep and Huy come forward, and present Tzipporah (a Midianite slave girl) as a gift to him. However,she refuses to conform (nearly biting Rameses), so he offers her to Moses. She defies him as well, demanding to be set free. Moses then tricks her into falling into an indoor pond, embarrassing her. Moses is, likewise, ashamed about what he did (after he sees his mother's disappointed reaction), and is nervous about confronting Tzipporah again later.Tzipporah is taken to Moses' chambers, but once he goes there after the banquet, he finds that she has escaped. However, instead of having the guards recapture her, he follows her as she leaves the palace and heads into the Hebrew settlement. She is given water by a man and woman at a well near the outer edge of the settlement, and she escapes into the desert on a camel. When Moses goes to watch her leave (clearly &quot;twitterpated&quot;), the woman (named Miriam) recognizes him. She claims that she is his sister, and that the man (named Aaron) is his brother, who tries to prevent Miriam from speaking to Moses--lest he punish them. Moses is incensed at her claim, but Miriam relates how he got to the palace, and that it saved his life. She claims that God chose him to deliver the Hebrews out of slavery.Soon, Moses begins to faintly remember the day he left his birth mother (specifically, his mother's last lullaby to him). Moses runs back to the palace in denial, where he falls asleep. He has a nightmare (or possibly a vision) showing what happened that day, including the deaths of the Hebrew infants. When Moses awakens, he searches the palace for evidence of this event, and eventually finds a large relief mural with hieroglyphics showing/declaring the death of the Hebrew babies, by his father's command. His father, Pharaoh Seti, explains this was a reluctant precaution on his part to keep the slaves from over-multiplying and uprising. However, due to his new-found knowledge of his Hebrew origins, he refuses to accept Pharaoh's justification that &quot;they were only slaves.&quot; Later his mother, the Queen, tells him that he is still their son and that they love him, and tries to comfort him so he will not be bothered by his origins.The next morning, Rameses presents his new renovation plan for the temple he and Moses ruined the previous day to several advisers, with Moses present. However, Moses is only paying attention to the Hebrews, as if noticing them for the first time, and soon observes one of them being whipped violently. Moses moves to prevent this, but in the process, ends up knocking the guard off a high scaffold to his death. Realizing the penalty for killing someone, Moses attempts to run away, but is soon stopped by Rameses, who claims he &quot;will make it so it never happened.&quot; However, Moses refuses to accept any more lies about his life. Because of his disgust at both his killing of the guard and his past indifference towards the slaves, and because he knew he had neither power nor moral authority to free the slaves, he ignores Rameses' pleas and tells him goodbye, departing into the desert.Moses wanders far into the desert, discarding his royal ornaments along the way, except for the ring given to him by Rameses. Eventually, close to death, he encounters a camel that drags him to a well. Soon after he arrives, Moses observes some bandits attempting to steal water from three young girls. Moses manages to drive the bandits away, but in his exhaustion he accidentally falls down the well. The three girls turn out to be Tzipporah's younger sisters, who are unable to get Moses out of the well until she comes along. However, once she realizes it's Moses, she drops him back down the well as retaliation for embarrassing her at the banquet several nights previous. (This is done in somewhat good nature, though, as she is aware of his help in her escape; it is assumed that she pulls him back out shortly after.)That evening, Tzipporah's father, Jethro the High Priest of Midian, holds a celebration in thanks for what Moses has done. Moses claims that his past actions (and inaction) make him unworthy of any honor (Tzipporah is surprised by his great change in attitude since they first met). However, Jethro refuses to believe his claim, referring to how Moses helped get all his daughters out of perilous situations. He tells Moses that if he wants to see what his life is worth, he needs to view his life &quot;through heaven's eyes,&quot; which he eventually does. Moses grows to become a member of Jethro's tribe, working with Tzipporah and her sisters as a shepherd. Over time, he and Tzipporah become friends, fall in love, and get married.One day (probably about ten years, give or take, after Moses left Egypt), while chasing a stray lamb, Moses discovers a cavern with a bush that &quot;burned&quot; in a way he has never seen before, with an unusual fire that didn't scorch. The bush then speaks, revealing that it is the voice and presence of God, who has heard the cries of the Israelites. When Moses nervously asks what is wanted of him, the voice says that He has chosen Moses to deliver the Hebrews out of slavery (just as his sister, Miriam, had declared), by speaking to Pharoah the words which he will be taught to say. Moses is at first apprehensive, given that he was the son of Pharoah, the man who murdered the children of the slaves. However, the voice commands Moses to go forth, promising to smite Egypt with His &quot;wonders&quot; when Pharaoh will not listen. He promises to be with Moses. Afterwards, God's presence departs, leaving the bush no longer alight. During this conversation, Moses' attitude and feelings go from shame and fear, to peace, confidence, and joy.Moses returns to Tzipporah and excitedly tells her of what transpired in the cave, and what he has been asked to do. Since she is overcome at first by the immensity of the task given him, he tells of his desire to see his people free, like her family is free. She lays aside her fears for him and decides to accompany him back to his former home. Upon reaching the palace, Moses finds that his father (and mother, presumably) is dead, and Rameses has become the new Pharoah, married with a son of his own. The two brothers greet each other jovially, with Rameses eager to welcome Moses back, forgiving the events that drove him away (and seemingly ignoring his Hebrew origins). Moses hesitantly explains that things cannot return to how they once were, and requests that Rameses let the slaves go free, as requested by God. Moses then demonstrates God's power, as his wooden staff becomes a snake. Rameses smirks at this &quot;trick,&quot; but is confused, thinking that Moses has something else he wants to talk about. However, he &quot;plays along,&quot; and has Hotep and Huy conjure their own magic, which is consists of convincing showmanship. This impresses the rest of Rameses' court, but not Moses or Tzipporah.Rameses and Moses then meet in private, where they discuss the slaves, the duties of Pharaoh, and the actions of Seti. Frustrated by Rameses refusal to acknowledge the humanity of the slaves, Moses' relation to them, and the sins of Seti, Moses declares that he can no longer hide in the desert while his people suffer. He returns the royal ring that Rameses had given him so long ago. Rameses is saddened, then angered, that Moses came back for the Hebrews and not for him. He declares that he does not acknowledge his brother's God, and refuses to allow the Hebrews to leave. Moses pleads for his brother to reconsider, but Rameses claims he will not be the 'weak link' in his family's dynasty, showing that Seti was successful in setting Rameses on an unalterable path. He then orders the workload doubled for the slaves out of spite.Several of the slaves--including his brother Aaron--shun Moses because of the extra workload, and they doubt that God called Moses to deliver them (or even cares for them). Miriam however, harbors no ill will towards her brother, claiming that God saved Moses from all his trials and adversity for a purpose. This encourages Moses to not give up.On the Nile river near them, Moses sees Rameses, his son, Hotep, and Huy on a royal barge. Moses approaches them, and yells for Rameses to let his people go. Rameses scoffs at this, and sends his guards after him--until Moses places his staff in the water, turning the Nile to blood. Unsure how this is achieved, Rameses demands that Hotep and Huy duplicate or explain this. Using some red powder, they claim that the power of their gods can do the same, and Rameses just dismisses Moses' &quot;trick&quot; once again. Aaron claims that nothing will help them, but Moses promises that God will see to it that they are made free.A series of plagues then begin to befall Egypt. Locusts destroy crops, the Egyptians come down with terrible sores on their skin, and fire rains down from the sky. Even with all these events and several more, Rameses still refuses to give in to Moses' request. They are both frustrated with each other. Many monuments, statues, and structures become damaged or destroyed.Soon after, the land is covered in darkness (except for where the Hebrews live), and Moses goes to see his brother once again to convince him to let the Hebrews go. As they talk, Rameses eventually opens up, they reminisce on their past, and a flicker of mutual brotherly love seems almost rekindled, until Rameses' son comes in and demands to know if Moses is the reason for what has befallen Egypt. With his son close by, Rameses once again sheds his friendlier side and acts as Pharaoh. Moses explains that the plagues would end if Rameses would just fulfill his request, and says something even more terrifying will happen if he doesn't, pleading for Rameses to think of his son. Rameses says he does, and proposes that he will &quot;finish the job&quot; that his father was not able to do, promising a greater massacre among the slaves than ever before.Moses leaves sadly, and instructs the slaves to put lamb's blood above their doors for protection. He informs them that the firstborn of every household will die, unless the blood is upon the door. In the night, the angel of death comes, and passes over the protected doors. In the homes where there is no protective sign, the angel takes the lives of the firstborn children, including Rameses' son. Moses goes to his brother after this, amidst the mourning of the Egyptians, and is at last given permission to take the slaves. He tries to comfort Rameses, but he orders him to leave.Moses is at first distraught, because of all who have died (among many other things), but Miriam encourages him, saying (or singing, rather) how at long last, the Hebrews (and any who will go with them) are finally having their prayers answered, and their faith affirmed. Tzipporah also tells how her own faith has grown, and the three of them, with Aaron, lead the exodus of the slaves. Most of the people are still somewhat in shock, but as they make their way out of Egypt, their spirits lift. After they finally reach the Red Sea, the watchman's horn is sounded behind them, and they see that Rameses has gathered his army of chariots to kill the slaves out of revenge; there appears to be no place for them to run. Suddenly, a pillar of fire descends from the heavens, separating the Hebrews and Rameses' army. Moses then walks a short distance into the Red Sea, and with his staff, parts the waters. At first the people are afraid to pass through (and probably afraid of Moses also), but Aaron, having overcome all his previous doubts, goes forward--encouraging the others to do likewise.The slaves make their way through, but eventually the pillar of fire disappears, and Rameses and his men decide to ride through the parted sea, rather than turn back and acknowledge defeat. Moses is able to get everyone across just as the water descends, drowning Rameses army. Rameses, meanwhile, is washed back ashore on the other side. The people are shocked by what happened for several moments, but eventually they realize that they are finally free, and they begin to celebrate. Moses begins to celebrate with his family, but then turns back to look across the sea, and thinks of his brother Rameses. Knowing that they will never see each other again, he quietly says goodbye one last time. Rameses, meanwhile, is conscious, and crying out Moses' name in rage, despair, and regret.As the Hebrews continue on their way, Tzipporah declares to Moses that they are free, thus reminding him that he accomplished the seemingly impossible task that God had given him. He acknowledges this with joy. The final scene shows Moses descending from Mount Horeb (Sinai) holding two stone tablets containing the Ten Commandments which God has given them to live by.