A musical, based on the Comedy Central animated series by the same creative team of Trey Parker and Matt Stone. Stan, Kyle, Kenny and Cartman go to see the new movie (&quot;Asses of Fire&quot;) by their favorite (and very foul-mouthed) comedians, the Canadians Terence and Philip. The boys' use of profanity grows exponentially after viewing the movie, and the popularity of both the movie and the profanity come to the indignant attention of the school's teachers and then the boys' parents. Kyle's mother Sheila begins a crusade against first T&P;, then against all of Canada. Meanwhile, the boys have seen the movie several more times and argue over whether or not you can really set a fart on fire. Kenny takes a dare (and some money), lights a fart but sets himself on fire in the process and dies in the ER. He then goes to Hell and meets Satan and Satan's boyfriend Saddam Hussein. As the diabolical pair await their chance to excape Hell and take over the world, anti-Canadian sentiment grows to full-blown hatemongering and war crimes and the US bombs Toronto. A newly-designed &quot;V-chip&quot; electrically curbs Cartman's use of profanity, much to his disgust. In a showstopping full-cast production number, The four boys form an underground movement called &quot;La Resistance&quot; to rescue T&P; from electrocution (during a USO show) before America's planned troop surge into Canada. Many town residents have joined the Army, including Chef, whose segregated unit is expected to serve as cannon fodder in &quot;Operation Human Shield&quot;, much to Chef's disgust. In Hell, Satan grows increasingly unhappy over continually taking mental abuse from the eternally-horny Saddam Hussein. &quot;La Resistance&quot; mounts a rocky but ultimately successful rescue attempt during the USO show (&quot;Just remember what the MPAA says--'Horrific, deplorable violence is OKAY, as long as people DON'T SAY ANY NAUGHTY WORDS!' &quot;). After the Canadian army's surprise invasion and subsequent horrific battle, Terence and Philip are shot. Once their innocent blood touches the ground, Satan and his minions, and Saddam, come out of Hell to begin conquering Earth. Saddam usurps Satan's perogative and tries to take over all by himself and is attacked by Cartman, whose V-chip has malfunctioned so that he shoots lightning every time he says a bad word. Encouraged by Kenny, Satan puts Saddam down once and for all, and restores everything on Earth to the way it was before T&P; were killed. The boys' mothers learn to blame their own foul-mouthed children rather than &quot;blaming Canada&quot;, and everyone rejoices as Kenny gets into Heaven in the big musical finale.