Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck) and Banky Edwards (Jason Lee) are comic book artists and lifelong friends. Holden is the calmer, more reasonable of the duo; Banky, meanwhile, is the caustic and short-tempered half. The story opens at a comic book convention in New York City where the two are promoting their latest comic series 'Bluntman and Chronic'. During a panel discussion, they meet Alyssa Jones (Joey Lauren Adams). She is a struggling writer whom is friends with the African-American writer and activist Hooper (Dwight Ewell) who puts on this militant image to hide his flamboyantly gay personality.That evening, they go out for drinks at a local bar where Holden is attracted to Alyssa, but soon learns that she is a lesbian when she invites him and Banky to a bar she frequents to hear her sing a pop song. However, the two begin hanging out, and a deep friendship develops. This does not sit well with the homophobic Banky, who dislikes and distrusts Alyssa and is bothered by the relationship that develops between her and Holden. Holden and Banky's business relationship suffers as well -- the two had been on the verge of signing a lucrative deal to turn Bluntman and Chronic into television show and Banky feels that Holden is no longer taking their combined efforts or the TV show seriously.Eventually, Holden is no longer able to contain his feelings, and confesses his love to Alyssa. She is initially angry with him, but that night, the two begin a romantic relationship.This new development worsens the tension between Holden and Banky. Determined to not let Holden and Alyssa have a future, Banky investigates and uncovers dirt on Alyssa's past, and he reports to Holden that Alyssa participated in a threesome with two guys during high school, which gave her the nickname &quot;Finger Cuffs&quot;. Holden is deeply disturbed by this revelation, having believed that he is the first man Alyssa had ever slept with.Holden asks advice from Hooper who tells him that if he wants his relationship with Alyssa to work, he must be honest and truthful as to put whatever is bothering him behind him by being up front with her about it.The following evening, Holden angrily confronts Alyssa while attending a hockey game, after he clumsily attempts baiting her into confessing. During a tearful argument in the parking lot, she tells Holden about her &quot;many&quot; youthful sexual experimentations. She apologizes for letting him believe that he was the only man she had been with. However, she refuses to apologize for her past, and Holden leaves feeling angry and confused.Later, during lunch at a local diner with the local stoners and drug dealers Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith), whom were the inspiration between for the Bluntman and Chronic comic book, Holden gives them their monthly residual pay for sales of the comic book. Here he confides in them about his troubled feelings and relationship with Alyssa. Speaking more than one line for the first time, Silent Bob reveals that he was once in a relationship &quot;a couple of years ago&quot; which was similar to Holden's. Despite the fact that he was in love with his girlfriend, Amy, his insecurities about her adventurous sexual past caused him to sabotage the relationship and leave her. Angry at himself for letting her go, he has &quot;spent every day since then chasing Amy... so to speak.&quot;Inspired by Silent Bob's story, Holden devises a half-baked plan to fix both his relationship with Alyssa and his fractured friendship with Banky. He invites them both over and tells Alyssa that he would like to get over her past and remain her boyfriend. He also tells Banky that he realizes that Banky is in love with him... kissing him passionately to prove the point. Holden suggests that the three of them should have sex with each other in a threesome to relive Alyssa's glory days. Though initially appalled, Banky agrees to participate. But Alyssa quickly refuses and explains to Holden that it will not save their relationship for she knows that he will always be insecure about her past. Before leaving, she states that she loves him, but she will not be his whore, slapping him across his face. Her past about who she was is over. Banky also leaves the apartment without saying a word, and summarily ends their friendship.One year later, both Banky and Holden are busy promoting their own respective comics at a convention in New York. It is revealed that Holden has dissolved their partnership over Bluntman and Chronic, leaving the viewer with the assumption that he sold the publishing and creative rights over to Banky (which is corroborated in the beginning of 'Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back'). Banky smiles sadly at seeing his old friend, who silently congratulates him for his success. Banky gestures over to a booth hosted by Alyssa, and provides wordless encouragement to Holden to go talk to her. He has a brief, quietly emotional conversation with Alyssa, and gives her a copy of 'Chasing Amy', his new comic based on their failed relationship. After Holden leaves, Alyssa's new girlfriend (Virginia Smith) arrives and asks who that was. A shaken Alyssa feigns indifference and replies, &quot;Oh, just some guy I knew.&quot;