In the early 1950s, sullen fourteen-year-old Pauline Rieper (Melanie Lynskey) is a student at a strict Catholic school in Christchurch, New Zealand. She resides in a working-class neighborhood with her parents, Herbert and Honora (Simon O'Connor and Sarah Peirse), whose home doubles as a boarding house. Introverted Pauline sleeps in a small furnished hut in the yard.Pauline's life changes dramatically when she befriends wealthy British transfer student Juliet Hulme (Kate Winslet), the daughter of a respected physicist. Pauline's quiet nature is countered by Juliet's charisma and outspokenness, and the girls quickly become inseparable. Despite different origins, they bond over their disdain for much of the modern world (except for actor James Mason and tenor Mario Lanza, whom they worship) and their respective illness-ridden childhoods. As their friendship grows, they create a fantasy kingdom called Borovina, about which they write stories and eventually interact with each other as the invented king and queen, Charles (Pauline) and Deborah (Juliet). They hope to one day become famous actresses in America, and to have their stories about Borovina published. Pauline spends extensive time at the Hulme house with Juliet and her parents, Henry and Hilda (Clive Merrison and Diana Kent), even joining them on vacations. During this time, Pauline sees the dysfunction that exists due to Hilda's affair with one of her marriage counseling patients. Juliet channels the energy from her resentment into her relationship with Pauline, constructing an alternate reality of bliss and hopefulness that becomes more and more real to both girls.Pauline's behavior begins to worry her parents, particularly after Juliet contracts tuberculosis and is sent to a clinic for months. The girls are miserable about their separation, and communicate via frequent letters detailing both their own thoughts and those of Charles and Deborah. With Juliet away, Pauline begins to seek new adventures to fill the emotional void. She allows the persistent affections of John (Jed Brophy), an awkward young man boarding at the Rieper's house who claims to be in love with Pauline and comes to her room at night. They are caught together by Pauline's father, who evicts John and is deeply angered and hurt by his daughter's behavior. Her mother, Honora, is furious as well, and forces Pauline to move back into the main house where she can be kept out of trouble. Pauline continues to sneak out to see John, though she has no real interest in him, and allows him to have sex with her simply out of resentment for her parents.When Juliet is well enough to return home, the girls resume their relationship, which only grows in intensity. Juliet's father Henry is disturbed with the obsessive behaviors of the girls, and nervously meets with Pauline's parents to reveal his concerns. He recommends that Pauline see a doctor. After interviewing Pauline, the doctor in question (Gilbert Goldie) tells Honora that Pauline is likely going through a homosexual phase. With homosexuality being considered a mental illness at the time (not to mention the social implications from the largely Catholic community), the parents of the girls agree that the friendship must taper off.Meanwhile, Hilda Hulme's affair with her patient, Bill Perry (Peter Elliott) is discovered by Henry and they agree to divorce. Henry resigns from his position at the University of Canterbury and plans to move back to England. Juliet is told that she will be sent to live with an aunt in South Africa, using the excuse that the warm climate will be better for her health. Juliet and Pauline will be allowed to spend three weeks together before the move. Pauline makes a desperate plea to her mother to be allowed to move away with Juliet, but Honora flatly refuses. Pauline begins to despise her mother for her role in breaking up the relationship, and her thoughts turn violent as her time with Juliet begins to run out.Juliet and Pauline entertain a rather flimsy plan to run away together to America, but following the scheme's collapse, they decide to kill Pauline's mother to remove what they believe to be the chief obstacle to their fantasy life. They arrange an outing with Honora to Victoria Park, where the three of them stop for tea before going for a walk in the woods. After several minutes of hiking, Juliet distracts Honora by dropping a pink gemstone onto the path and directing Honora's attention to it. While Honora is bent over examining the stone, Pauline extracts a brick in a stocking from her purse. She and Juliet take turns bludgeoning Honora until she is dead, and then run screaming, drenched in blood, back to the tea shop where they tell the shopkeep that there's been an &quot;accident.&quot;The girls' story quickly dissolves, and both are arrested after police find Pauline's diary which explicitly outlined their murder plan. Pauline is charged under her mother's maiden name, Parker, after it was discovered that her parents were not legally wed. Being too young for the death penalty, Juliet Hulme and Pauline Parker served five years in prison and were released under the condition that they never contact each other again.