Somewhere on a distant planet, a court is called to order by the Grand Councilwoman (Zoe Caldwell) who oversees the charges read by Captain Gantu (Kevin Michael Richardson) against Doctor Jumba (David Ogden Stiers) for illegal genetic experimentation. Jumba is adamant about his innocence until his latest experiment is brought into the room. The tiny, six-limbed, blue creature snarls and jumps against his glass cage while Jumba proudly explains all of the amazing powers his Experiment 626 possesses before collapsing in a fit of maniacal laughter. The Grand Councilwoman offers 626 a moment to prove that he is good, but he shocks the council with a slew of alien profanity. Convinced that the experiment is nothing more than the product of a deranged mind, the Councilwoman condemns Jumba to life in prison and sentences 626 to expulsion on a far away planet. Captain Gantu takes charge of 626 and confines him within the master ship of his armada. However, 626s cunning, and some projectile spit, allows him to quickly escape and commandeer a small patrol cruiser. The armada gives chase and disables the craft, but not before 626 engages the hyper-drive and blasts off into the regions of space.An infuriated Councilwoman orders 626s trajectory to be tracked and its discovered that hes headed for a planet called Earth. At first, all are relieved to see that 626 is destined to crash land in the Pacific Ocean where his body density would be too heavy to allow him to swim. However, they see that his craft is headed straight for the small island of Kauai on the Hawaiian Islands. The Councilwomans plans to gas the planet are halted by Agent Pleakley (Kevin McDonald) who defends Earth as a nature preserve, home of the 'endangered' mosquito population. Knowing that only someone with extended knowledge on 626 is required for his capture, the Councilwoman offers Doctor Jumba his freedom for 626's incarceration and places Pleakley in charge of Jumba's progress; a job that Pleakley does not take lightly.