On the surface, Tim Jensen (Barry Watson) seems to be a normal person, with a steady job and a good relationship with his girlfriend Jessica. However, a terrifying event that he witnessed as a child (Aaron Murphy) has left him traumatized, where his father (Charles Mesure) was taken by the Boogeyman (Andrew Glover), an evil creature which lives in all closets worldwide. Since then, he has taken precautions to ensure that the Boogeyman cannot get to him, such as sleeping on a mattress on the floor, and removing all closets from his home and keeping all his clothes in a dresser drawer.After a Thanksgiving trip with Jessica (Tory Mussett) to her parents' house, Tim has a premonition in which his Mother (Lucy Lawless), presently imprisoned at a madhouse, tells him to return to the family home. Tim awakes and won't relax until he finds out what happened with his mother. When he rings the hospital, he discovers his mother has died. Upon returning to the psychiatric ward where he grew up after his father died, he discovers that one of the patients, a young girl, is being threatened by the Boogeyman, which this time lives in her attic.Upon a suggestion by his psychiatrist that returning to his family home to spend the night in that house would be a good idea, Tim returns to his old Victorian style house in the open country, where he relives memories of his mother telling his father that the Boogeyman does not exist and therefore cannot possibly harm Tim. Tim is briefly attacked by the Boogeyman when he enters the downstairs closet. However, despite enjoying a reunion with Kate Houghton (Emily Deschanel), his childhood friend, he becomes convinced that he is being watched by the same entity that has terrorized him his entire life.Soon the Boogeyman starts showing up in various unexpected places, including Kate's house. Tim attempts to warn Kate of the danger she is in, but she freaks out when Tim begins acting paranoid and strange. Frustrated at Tim's refusal to tell her what is really wrong with him, Kate claims that the person Tim saw in her house was in fact her deaf father. Upon returning to his house, Tim meets a young girl in his woodshed, named Franny Roberts (Skye McCole Bartusiak) who wants to know that if it's true that the Boogeyman murdered Tim's father. Tim does not know where she heard this information, and he firmly tells her that the Boogeyman cannot exist. However, when Tim reenters the house, he discovers a disturbing file of Missing Person lists and documents, and upon flicking through them, he discovers a collection of missing children whom were all taken by the Boogeyman. The Boogeyman has been taking various children throughout history. When Tim looks down from a photo of a missing boy, he discovers the same missing boy standing before him. When he looks around, Tim discovers a huge crowd of the missing children moving towards him, their faces deadly white and ghostly pale. The children all come up and start brushing Tim, who faints. When he awakes, he is alone again in the house.Jessica, his girlfriend, abruptly shows up and she takes Tim out of the house for a night in a quiet hotel, where she is murdered by the Boogeyman, who spies at her through the closet in the bathroom before dragging her into the bath.Tim appears and enters the hotel bathroom, and then finds that Jessica is missing. He realizes what has occurred, and stumbles blindly into a closet, and then walks out into his family home, just as Kate, his friend, has returned to his home and, upon hearing noises from the closets, was about to open the door herself. She is momentarily frightened by Tim's mysterious appearance, but then begins to worry when Tim panics about Jessica, a woman she never met, and then Tim drags Kate back to the hotel, where they find the empty bath; this time with blood on the side. They both wonder what has happened; Kate thinking that Tim might've harmed Jessica; but Tim angrily denies it. They return to the house, and Tim meets Franny once more, who leads him to a ward full of proclamations describing the Boogeyman. There is a chair in the middle of the room facing a closet. Tim remembers this room as being the home of a doctor whom everyone thought insane. Franny then reveals herself to be one of the dead kids whom the Boogeyman murdered, and disappears, telling Tim he'd best go to the place where it all started.Tim does so and returns to his bedroom just as his Uncle Mike (Philip Gordon) arrives home. Mike is attacked and killed by the Boogeyman who wraps him in plastic sheeting and drags him into a closet. Kate joins Tim upon hearing the commotion and then she also sees the Boogeyman. Tim attempts to sit in the chair and face the Boogeyman but the Boogeyman thwarts his efforts. Tim is attacked by the Boogeyman who drags him under a bed and he awakes in the hotel which he stayed in with Jessica, revealing that closets and beds are portals after all. Tim sees Jessica being drowned by the Boogeyman, who attacks Tim, dragging him back under a bed where he reunites with Kate at his house. The Boogeyman chases Tim upstairs to his bedroom where Tim begins to fend off the Boogeyman. The monster turns into various toys Tim was afraid of, such as a ball of electricity in a glass case, and a murder of crows, and then a humanoid figurine which stood on Tim's bedside table. The Boogeyman attempts to drag Tim back into a closet to kill him, but realising that the monster is only posing as a figurine, Tim picks up the figurine and slams the toy against a dresser, smashing the torso to pieces, causing the Boogeyman to suffer the same injury. Tim then kicks the Boogeyman back into the closet. The Boogeyman resurfaces however causes a vortex of winds, trying to draw Tim into the closet once more, clawing at Tim's legs, but Tim and Kate cling onto grounded objects in the room and Tim punches the Boogeyman in the jaw, causing him to fall back into the closet and into an ethereal pit.With the Boogeyman gone, Tim hopes that his and Kate's lives will be safer. Morning dawns and Tim already feels better and the credits roll. However, a post-credits scene reveals a young girl being tormented by the monster, revealing that the Boogeyman has resurfaced out of the closet.