A simple plan, so long as everyone sticks to it!
Blackmail the local preacher. Hide the money, get your alibi straight, wait for 24 hours and then run....
Right. So Charlie (David Schwimmer), with a family to support goes along with Gus's (Simon Pegg) #simple# plan to net them enough cash to vanish on. But then Josie (Alice Eve) appears and gets herself in on the deal. They do the deed, and Josie cuts the deal with the local preacher. On schedule, Gus goes to collect the money.
So far so good.
Charlie's alibi isn't where he's supposed to be, and he panics, just as Gus is being held at gunpoint by the Reverend. Shots are fired. Charlie races to find Gus, but finds a body. He panics and (weighted with a garden gnome) drops the body in the septic tank.
Gus reappears, cleaning the gunshot wound to his leg. Oops. Charlie just drowned the unconscious Rev!
Deputy Garman (Billy Asher) appears, just as Gus and Charlie discover the snuff movies the Rev has been producing. The Reverend's body has just been found in a car down the road. Desperate to get rid of him, Gus totals him with an ornament, and they tie him up. The door opens and the Reverend's wife appears, confessing to having murdered him. She's looking for her partner who is due to arrive and run away with her and the $2 million they have in a bag.
Josie appears and plants an axe in Mrs Rev. Great. Three dead, a police deputy for a hostage and a bag of money. Time to get away. Make that four dead. The deputy just tried escaping and cracked his skull open on the toilet.
OK, so three fugitives, one car, two bodies in suitcases. Run into another car in town, in the rain, and meet some little fat guy. Bribe him to forget it.
Stop at a remote spot to dump the bodies. Ah. make that one body. Driving back to find the other body - did Josie's axe in the head actually do the deed? - they run straight into her, and kill her, for sure.
Charlie's wife, Penny (Natascha McElhone), the other local police officer, stops them. One very quick adlibbed excuse later, and they are all down at the police station.
Litlle fat guy turns out to be the local ME, full of theories about the &quot;Oregan Undertaker&quot;, and somehow they get away with it all.
So, one body to dump. Try the local tar pit, but as Charlie points out it'll take about a week for the body to actually sink.
Little fat guy turns up, having acted on his suspicions, identifies Josie as the &quot;Wyoming Widow&quot; serial poisoner, and a running battle ensues. LFG kills Gus, Josie makes Charlie take poison, just as she discovers that the bag of money, seen minutes before with $2 million in it, has a load of toys in now.....We finally cut to Emily (Olivia Peterson), Charlie's daughter, having fun with a bag of bank notes, but no sign of Mum anywhere.... and isn't that Josie hitching a lift with some guy from Oregan, and is that a body in the back of his truck......