It's the year 2707. Earth's natural resources have been exhausted by mankind. Battle rages between the soldiers of four leading Corporations: the Capitol, Bauhaus, Mishima and Imperial.Mitch Hunter (Thomas Jane) and Nathan Rooker (Sean Pertwee), battle hardened Capitol soldiers, fight a desperate battle against a Bauhaus advance. When an errant shell destroys an ancient stone seal, they find themselves facing a new enemy: hideous necromutants, with boneblades that grow from their arms. Mitch barely manages to escape. Nathan does not.The mutants multiply by millions and they destroy all before them. The Corporations' leader, Constantine (John Malkovich), is about to abandon the planet and leave countless innocents to their desperate fate, when he is approached by Brother Samuel (Ron Perlman), leader of the Brotherhood, an ancient monastic order.Samuel is the keeper of the Chronicles, a book that prophesies both the rise of the Mutants, and of the 'Deliverer' that will destroy them. Samuel believes he is that Deliverer destined to journey deep into the earth and destroy the source of the mutant scourge. He manages to recruit Mitch, along with a handful of like-minded soldiers: Maximillian von Steiner (Benno Fürmann), honor bound Bauhaus officer; sword wielding Severian (Anna Walton); street fighter Cpl. Jesus 'El Jesus' de Barrera (Luis Echegaray); fearless beauty Valerie Duval (Devon Aoki); and stoic warrior Cpl. Juba Kim Wu (Tom Wu)
.
&quot;Mutant Chronicle&quot; follows Mitch and Samuel's mission to venture into the very heart of the darkness in an attempt to save the planet from marauding hordes of deathless mutants.They all will be dying as they plundge themselves into the &quot;Hidden City&quot;, now crammed with mutants. Mitch Hunter will be the final hero: he will succeed in closing the seal forever more, but not without getting himself infected and having to use Brother Samuel's mutant-transformed body as a kind of tool.Everything colapses Mitch Hunter, who lets himself die there.