An unseen narrator (Pablo Adán's voiceover) tells of an underground kingdom that was devoid of lies or pain. Long ago, the young princess of the realm escaped, curious to see the world above, but was blinded by the bright sunlight and all memories of her past were erased. She eventually succumbed to the natural world as her inability to adapt to her new surroundings left her helpless. Her father, the King, remained hopeful that his daughter would return to her kingdom some day.Spain; 1944. The Spanish Civil War has been over for five years but small groups of guerrilla rebels continue to fight against the fascist dictatorship led by Francisco Franco. Ten-year-old Ofelia (Ivana Baquero), a quiet lover of books and fairy tales, is travelling with her mother, Carmen (Ariadna Gil), to a rural village of Navarra where Carmen's new husband, Captain Vidal (Sergi Lopez), an officer of Franco's army, is stationed with his men at an old mill. Carmen is heavily pregnant with Vidal's child. Ofelia's father had died during the war.When Carmen and Ofelia arrive at the mill, stern Vidal shows little concern for his new stepdaughter but takes great care to ensure that Carmen's pregnancy progresses smoothly. He commissioned a local doctor, Ferrerio (Alex Angulo) to stay at the mill and tend to Carmen. Ofelia wanders off to the nearby woods where she discovers a strange stone structure. She is found by Vidal's housekeeper, Mercedes (Maribel Verdu), who explains that the structure is an ancient labyrinth that Ofelia should not enter, lest she get lost. Mercedes gently ushers Ofelia back to the house.Ofelia and Carmen settle into their bedroom. Dr. Ferrerio speaks with Vidal in his study, explaining that Carmen should not have traveled in such a late stage of an already difficult pregnancy. It becomes increasingly obvious that Vidal only values Carmen as a vessel for his child, which he is certain will be a son to carry on his name. Vidal's tyrannical temper is revealed that night when he brutally murders two peasants whom his men mistook for rebel fighters, but who were merely farmers hunting for rabbits. Vidal realizes this after the men are dead, but blames his men for the error, barking that they should &quot;learn to search these assholes properly&quot; before consulting him.That night, Ofelia sleeps beside her mother. In the middle of the night she is woken by the sound of large thin wings and sits up to see a large insect she'd spotted during the the journey to the mill. The insect transforms into a tiny fairy, and beckons Ofelia to follow it. It leads her outside to the labyrinth. When Ofelia reaches the center of the maze,she is greeted by a faun, (Doug Jones, voiced by Pablo Adan), a supernatural creature that is half-man, half-goat.. He explains to Ofelia that she is really the long-lost princess from the underground realm. The faun addresses Ofelia as Princess Moanna, and explains that he had been sent by the King to bring her home, but that she must first prove herself worthy of returning.The faun presents Ofelia with a magic book that will detail three tasks which she must complete by the next full moon. The first task, he explains, is to retrieve a key from the stomach of a giant toad that lives beneath a fig tree in the forest. He gives her three magic stones which she must feed to the toad. He also tells Ofelia to look for a moon-shaped birthmark on her shoulder that identifies her as the princess.Meanwhile, Mercedes and Dr. Ferreiro are risking their lives by secretly aiding the group of rebels hiding in the woods, one of whom is Mercedes' brother Pedro (Roger Casamajor). Since Vidal had decided to starve out the rebels by keeping all food and medicine locked up in the mill's storeroom, Mercedes and Ferrerio must smuggle the goods silently in the dead of night. Both are all too aware of the sadistic violence Vidal inflicts upon those who disobey him.Captain Vidal is hosting a banquet to properly introduce his wife to some local political figureheads.Carmen expects Ofelia to attend, and presents her with a beautiful new dress and shoes for the occasion. Ofelia accepts the gifts with lukewarm gratitude, as she is distracted by the thought of the first task. As Ofelia prepares to take her bath, she examines the magic book, which informs her that the task must take place that day.Shortly before the dinner party, Ofelia escapes to the woods. She finds the fig tree and crawls into the cavern below. She manages to feed the magic stones to the enormous toad, which vomits out its insides. Ofelia finds the key among them, and departs. She returns to the house, her new dress ruined. Carmen sends her to bed without supper.During the banquet, Vidal's rigid views become apparent. He vows not to rest until every rebel is shot dead. The town mayor (Juanjo Cucalón) recalls being in the army with Vidal's father, who, upon his death, smashed his watch on a rock to ensure that his son would know the exact time of his demise. Vidal dismisses this, claiming that his father never owned a watch (though he is seen several times meticulously cleaning a pocketwatch in his study).Despite her punishment, Ofelia is pleased with her success at completing the first task. Checking on the magic book again, blood-red ink begins to spread over the page in the bath, as if bleeding. A thud is heard in the bedroom and Ofelia sees finds her mother collapsed on the floor, hemorrhaging. Doctor Ferreiro is brought in to tend to her- Carmen is bleeding from her uterus and begging for help. Dr. Ferreiro stabilizes Carmen with a powerful sedative and informs Vidal that the outlook for his wife is grim: she must remain on strict bed rest. Vidal orders the doctor to save his son, even at the expense of his wife's life.Ofelia is sent to a separate bedroom, and that night she's woken by the fairy once again.Vidal and his men continue to hunt for the center rebels in the forest. While examining a recently abandoned campsite, Vidal finds a small glass vial of antibiotics. He suspiciously pockets it.During night, the Faun appears in Ofelia's room and asks why she has not begun the second task yet. Ofelia explains that her mother is not well. The faun gives her with a mandrake root, explaining that, when placed under her mother's bed in a bowl of milk and feeding with drops of blood, it will improve her health. Ofelia obeys, feeding the the humanoid mandrake under Carmen's bed with her blood from her finger. Carmen's condition quickly improves, and Ofelia is now free to begin with her next task.That night, Ofelia is visited in her room wall by the Faun who asks if her mother is feeling better. Ofelia replies that she is will lead and thanks him. He then gives her explicit to instructions for her second task which involves invading the lair of a feared monster monster. She is to retrieve a golden dagger. Above all things, Ofelia is warned explicitly to not eat any of anything from the enormous feast that she will find laid out on a table within. The Faun gives Ofelia a piece of magic chalk and an hourglass.She must collect complete the dagger task and make her way back to her room before the last grain of sand falls within the hourglass. The Faun faun gives her Ofelia a small box containing his three fairies to aid her. Ofelia uses the magic chalk to carve out a doorway in the wall of her room. As she enters the lair, she flips the hourglass, and descends into her timed trial. She walks to a large room where a bounty of food is set out on a large table. At the head lair of the table sits a child-eating creature known as the Pale Man (Doug Jones). The Pale Man sits before a sumptuous banquet, completely motionless, with his two eyeballs set on a plate front of him. Ofelia finds that the creature is immobile and doesn't respond to her presence. On the walls she sees hideous paintings of the Pale Man devouring children. On the far wall are three cabinet doors, variously made of gold, silver, and wood. She finds the dagger, unlocking its container with the key she retrieved from the toad, Ofelia approaches the doors to open one. The fairies point to the golden door to match the golden key but Ofelia hesitates, instead correctly choosing the humbler wooden door. She finds the dagger inside and stuffs it into her knapsack. As she leaves, she pauses beside the table and eyes a platter of grapes. Enchanted by the food and very hungry, she ignores the previous warnings of the Faun's and the present warnings of the fairies (believing them untrustworthy because of their choice of the door). Ofelia picks a grape, and eats it. The fairies frantically try to alert her as the Pale Man stirs and puts jolts awake, inserting his clawed hands down on the eyeballs, imbedding the eyeballs into the sockets in his palms. Not seeing this, Ofelia eats another grape before she turns to see the Pale Man approaching her. The fairies try to distract the creature but he grabs approaches and kills two of them and eats them. Horrified, Ofelia runs with the last fairy. The Pale Man chases Ofelia down the hallway. In horror, she notices the chalked doorway closing; she's too late. However, Ofelia manages to draw another doorway in the ceiling and barely escapes back into her room.Mercedes makes her way to the edge of the woods, a bundle under her arms. She walks out to the abandoned rebel campsite and is suddenly surrounded by rebels. However, she greets them as family and hugs the leader, her brother Pedro. They bring her back to their hideout where Mercedes distributes various food and supplies she stole from the mill. One of the rebels, Francés (Gonzalo Uriarte), is suffering a from an infection in his leg from a bullet wound. Doctor Ferreiro is on site and he determines that the leg must be amputated. Though he willingly provides aid to the rebels, Ferreiro does not believe that they will win the fight against the government.The Faun revisits Ofelia in her room and she gives him the dagger but explains faun's next visit, Ofelia admits that something went wrong. She says that an &quot;accident&quot; had occurred during her third last task. The remaining fairy guide whispers in the Faun's ear betraying Ofelia's disobedience. He admonishes her for her recklessness and tells her that, with the full moon only three days away, she may never prove herself worthy of returning to her kingdom. He vanishes, leaving Ofelia alone and in misery.The next day, the mill is rocked by sounds of explosions and gunfire. Vidal conjures his men and they rush into the woods to confront the attacking rebels. However, this seems to be a decoy. Vidal returns to the mill to find that the mill's storeroom is devoid of most of the supplies stored there. He also sees that the lock is not broken or tampered with. This leads him to suspect Mercedes since she had the only key. He questions her, but she assures him that she didn't have anything to do with it. Vidal's man drag a wounded man out of the woods for interrogation.Mercedes rushes to the storeroom, where the prisoner is kept, worried that it could have been her brother. It's not Pedro, but it's another friend. Mercedes catches a glimpse of the man's desperate face before the door swings shut. Vidal is using tools to torture the unfortunate prisoner, nicknamed Tarta (Ivan Massague) because of his heavy stutter. He is tied to a post while Vidal casually toys with his emotions and shows him an array of torturing tools, but Vidal knows that Tarta will not easily betray his friends. Noticing the man's stutter, Vidal takes amusement and taunts him with a proposition: He proposes a deal; if Tarta can count to three without stuttering, he will be set free. Vidal addresses his second-in-command, Garcés (Manolo Solo), who confirms Vidal's honesty and power to release him. However, Tarta stutters on three. Vidal muses that that's a shame before he hits him with a hammer.Dr. Ferreiro is summoned to treat him at the storeroom. Vidal wants Tarta him healthy enough to stand some more torture. Ferreiro is shocked to see him beaten to a bloody pulp. Tarta begs Ferreiro for death. Ignoring Vidal's orders, the doctor humanely kills the agonized man with a lethal dose of morphine. Vidal is angered, and shoots Ferreiro in the back as he walks calmly away. In Doctor Ferreiro's room room, Vidal discovers a glass vial identical to the one found in the woods at the abandoned rebel camp, confirming Ferreiro's participation in the anti-fascist rebellion.Meanwhile, Ofelia checks on the mandrake beneath her sleeping mother's bed. Everything is all right until a pair of rough hands pull her out from under the bed. Vidal demands to know what she is doing. He retrieves the mandrake, taking it bowl of sour milk from its bowl and wakes Carmen. He angrily shows it to his wife, telling her that this is what her daughter's imagination has led her to. He shoves the mandrake root into Carmen's hands before angrily leaving, and blames Ofelia's actions on &quot;that trash you let her read.&quot; Carmen asks to be alone with Ofelia. Begging to be understood, Ofelia tries to explain herself. Her mother tells her that she's been foolish despite Ofelia's assertions that the mandrake is what made Carmen feel better. However, Carmen despondently tosses the mandrake into the fireplace, saying that fairy tales and magic exist for no one. As the mandrake burns and screams in the flames, Carmen suddenly collapses over in pain.A maid runs out to inform him that Carmen has gone into labour. With the doctor dead, a military medic does not know how to deal with the case, and Carmen dies during the birth of his son. A healthy infant son is satisfaction enough for Vidal, but leaves Ofelia devastated at her mother's death.Now orphaned, Ofelia's only ally is Mercedes. The next day, Vidal is cradling his son while Ofelia and Mercedes attend Carmen's funeral. Mercedes softly reveals that Vidal keeps the baby in his quarters.Mercedes comforts the orphaned Ofelia and hums to her a tune she's since forgotten the words to. Ofelia asks if Mercedes is helping the rebels but she says she hasn't. Ofelia knows Mercedes has, but promises she will not spill a word of it. Mercedes is then summoned to Vidal's room quarters, where he casually offers her a drink before confronting her with the unbroken lock from the storeroom door. Some time before, Vidal had ordered Mercedes to hand over the storeroom key, which she claimed to be the only mill key. Sensing he had been given only a copy, Vidal calmly muses aloud that she when the storeroom had been ravaged by the rebels, the door and lock were undamaged. Mercedes vows plans to leave flee that night to evade certain execution or torture. She visits Ofelia's room to say goodbye, but ends up bringing her along after Ofelia begs to go taken with her. Huddled together in the rain, Mercedes begrudgingly agrees and takes Ofelia with her and they make their way into the woods. Before they can get very far, they are intercepted by Vidal and his men. and are brought back to the mill. Mercedes is bound and locked inside the mill while Vidal drags Ofelia back to her room, slapping her across the face and demanding to know how long she's she had known about Mercedes' treachery. As he leaves the room, he locks her and orders his captain to kill her if anyone tries in, and also has Mercedes taken to the storeroom. Ofelia breaks down in tears.Dawn breaks with Mercedes tied up in the storeroom. Vidal launches the same speech he had given to his last victim, describing the mill and showing off various tools he will employ to extract information. When Vidal's back is turned, Mercedes manages to retrieve a small knife that she always carries tucked in her apron. Mercedes stabs Vidal him in the back and then sticks the knife in his mouth. She warns him that if he harms Ofelia, he won't be the first pig she's gutted. She then slits Vidal's cheek open and exits the mill, doing her best to flee. The other men notice Mercedes leaving. She stays composed as she passes the guards and walks towards the woods, as if Vidal had let her go. Soon he emerges from the mill, his mouth agape, sporting in a hideous Glasgow smile, and he roars at his men to bring Mercedes back. They pursue after her.Now being pursued, Mercedes sprints into the woods where she is soon surrounded by Vidal's men on horseback. Garcés taunts Mercedes that he is going to slit her throat, because if she is to die, he'd rather be the one who kills her. Suddenly, shots ring out and all of Vidal's men are killed. When the dust clears, the remaining rebels led by Pedro emerge with their guns from the trees and Mercedes rushes to embrace him. She collapses, weeping, into Pedro's arms.Locked away in her room, Ofelia is visited again by the Faun. He has decided to grant her one last chance. He instructs her that her third and final task is to fetch her infant brother and to take him into the center of the labyrinth. Ofelia escapes using the piece of magic chalk and sneaks into Vidal's quarters where the wound baby is kept. Ofelia takes the bottle of her mother's sedative and hides in Vidal's room, watching him sew up the gash in his cheek. While he is distracted, Ofelia drugs his scotch drink heavily with some sedatives. As he drinks, gunfire and explosions erupt as the rebels begin a second attack and he disappears. As he begins feeling the effects of the drugs, Vidal makes out the bleary image of Ofelia standing in the doorway holding her brother. He runs after her as she races to leave to the labyrinth. The baby falls from her arms. Vidal stumbles after her.Meanwhile, the rebels are violently attacking the mill, and Mercedes frantically searches for Ofelia amid the rebel attack.Ofelia makes it to the center of the labyrinth with her brother, and she meets the Faun. He asks her to hand her brother to him, but Ofelia hesitates when she sees that the Faun is holding the dagger she collected during her second task. The Faun assures her that this is the final task: he only needs a small prick of blood from an innocent -just a pinprick- to open the portal to Moanna's kingdom. Ofelia is not convinced. She refuses to hand him the baby. The faun angrily pressures her to reconsider, as the full moon is high in the sky and the time to act quick has arrived. However, Ofelia stubbornly refuses to obey. An incredibly groggy Vidal enters the labyrinth and finds his way to the center. He sees Ofelia standing alone, speaking to nothing but the wind. Ofelia firmly states that she'd rather remain mortal in order to protect her little brother, despite all the pain that his existence has brought her. The Faun relents and backs away. Vidal approaches Ofelia from behind and snatches the baby from her arms. Without a word, he aims his gun at Ofelia and shoots her, leaving her for dead. Ofelia collapses as her blood seeps onto the labyrinth stonework. It drips down from her stomach as Vidal leaves with the baby. Staggering to the stone stairs exit of the labyrinth, Vidal is met by Mercedes and a crowd of armed rebels. Facing death and acknowledging his defeat, Vidal takes out his watch from his pocket, requesting that the rebels tell the child who his father was and what time he died. Mercedes steps forward and flatly refuses: she tells Vidal that the child will never even know his father's name. Pedro shoots Vidal, killing him.Mercedes runs into the labyrinth leaving Vidal to die. She is searching for Ofelia. In the labyrinth, Mercedes and the rebels reach the core of the maze, only to find Ofelia smiling as the light in her eyes fades away. Mercedes weeps, having knelt next to her. The next scene is ambiguous: is Ofelia dreaming? Has she really returned to her kingdom? or is she dying away?As she begins to weaken, Ofelia is dying, bleeding to death. The rebels watch as Mercedes comforts Ofelia in the labyrinth, humming to her the same tune she once did before. Ofelia's eyes glaze as she feels that a strong light appears from nowhere. She suddenly finds herself transported into a huge room and sees her parents, both alive again, sitting high atop tall thrones. The Faun king appears and tells Ofelia that he and the Queen (Ariadna Gil) welcome Princess Moanna back home, and commends her choice of sparing her brother as the right decision; that was the final test to prove that she truly is Princess Moanna. The blood of an innocent was her own, and she spilled in lieu of her brother and, for that, she has earned the right to sit by her parents. Applause and cheering fills the court, making Ofelia smile.Mercedes holds Ofelia's body by the side of the ruins, crying in the night. It may be that she has gone to her kingdom, or it may be that the previous scene is Ofelia imagining a happy ending for herself as she dies in silence, leaving Mercedes holding her broken dead body. The last scene is a wide-lens caption of Mercedes, now silent, holding onto Ofelia's body.