In the small town of Devil's Kettle, Minnesota, the story focuses on two girls who are best friends. One of them is Anita &quot;Needy&quot; Lesnicky (Amanda Seyfried), a blond-haired, nerdy, substantially unpopular, &quot;plain jane&quot; student. The other focus is on Jennifer Check (Megan Fox), a beautiful black-haired girl who is a cheerleader on the school's flag team.One evening, Jennifer has Needy accompany her to a local bar, where an Indie Rock Band named Low Shoulder is playing. During the performance, the bar catches on fire, and Needy and Jennifer just barely escape from being killed in the fire. Upon escaping, they are accosted by the band who seem to have made it out okay. However, Needy watches as the band members lead Jennifer to their van, before driving away, with Needy watching as the remains of the bar collapses to the ground in a fiery inferno.Needy eventually makes it home where she finds a note from her divorced mother whom is working evenings. Needy calls her boyfriend Chip (Johnny Simmons), and explains about the disaster. However, she soon encounters Jennifer in her home: clothing torn, and bleeding. Things get even stranger, as Needy watches Jennifer tear into a raw chicken in her fridge and give an unworldly roar at her, before spewing up a black substance all over the floor. Jennifer further terrorizes Needy when she throws her against a wall asking her if she is scared of her. Jennifer then runs out the front door leaving a bewildered and frightened Needy behind.The next day, the tragedy of the bar fire has captured the town, with many in the local high school feeling the tragedy. Key among them is the high school football captain, whom Jennifer leads into the nearby woods after school. Later on in the day, a teacher at the school finds the captain's remains, and the town is rocked by the additional tragedy.A month passes by, Jennifer begins to look a little pale and gaunt. As Needy watches, Jennifer catches the eye of the school nerd Colin Gray (Kyle Gallner), and asks him to meet her at her house.The next evening, Needy spends time with her boyfriend Chip, while Colin goes to meet Jennifer... only to find her at a still-in-construction house in a deserted neighborhood where she is in an upstairs room which is lit by various candles. It is here that Jennifer suddenly transforms into a white-eyed humanoid creature kills and 'eats' Colin, as Needy has a shocking vision that causes her to panic as Chip makes love to her.Needy leaves her boyfriend's place, and drives away, only to encounter Jennifer walking like an animal across the road, before jumping onto her car's windshield. Needy returns home, only to find Jennifer sleeping in her bed. Jennifer then kisses Needy, which turns into a hot make-out session, which causes Needy to verbaly snap over what is going on. Needy orders Jennifer to leave, but Jennifer instead confesses what happened to her on the night the local bar burned down....In a flashback sequence, the band Low Shoulder drove Jennifer out into a forested area, in hopes to offer her as a Satanic sacrifice, in exchange for fame and fortune. During the band's discussions, several wondered if Jennifer really was a virgin, and she said she was (in hopes that they would let her go). Using some instructions they downloaded off the internet, they spoke an incantation, before stabbing her with a knife, which was then thrown into a whirlpool off the nearby Devil's Kettle Falls.Back in the present, Jennifer further explains to Needy that she found herself still alive in which she wandered away from the site after they had left, and that led Jennifer to Needy's place that night. Jennifer also confides to Needy, that when she is fully replenished with human flesh, she is indestructible. She demonstrates this by stabbing herself in the arm with a pocket knife, and Needy watches as the flesh immediately heals. Jennifer also tells Needy that on that same night after she left Needy's house, she found a homeless derelict walking along a road in which she killed and ate him and then hid the body in the woods. Needy threatens to call the police, but Jennifer tells Needy that she will just deny everything that she just told her and on top of that, no one will ever belive such a story no matter how Needy tells it. With that, Jennifer jumps out of Needy's second floor window and lands 12 feet on the ground, completely uninjured, and runs off into the night.Now more worried than ever, Needy goes to the occult section of their school's library, and begins to do research. Needy soon finds where the band went wrong. Because Jennifer was not a virgin, their sacrifice, though it indeed brought them fame and fortune, it has also turned her into a succubus; a female demon which causes her to feed on young men in order to keep her strength. Needy grows upset because of the upcoming Spring Formal, and how it seems that Jennifer could very well turn the dance into a blood bath. She informs her boyfriend Chip about this, but he is unsure about her theory.Eventually, the Spring Formal comes about, and Needy goes there to meet Chip. Also in attendance is the band Low Shoulder, who have gained great fame and notoriety since that fateful night several months prior. As they take the stage, and Needy does not see Chip anywhere, she bolts from the auditorium. Also, during this time, we see Jennifer ambush Chip in the woods, telling him that Needy was having sex with Colin, and that was why she was so upset with his death. Jennifer and Chip start kissing, and they walk a little ways to an abandoned swimming pool.Needy finds Chip in the water, where the demonic Jennifer has already bitten into him. Needy jumps in the water to help Chip crawl out when Jennifer appears, and Needy sprays mace at her, which make Jennifer vomit more black-fluid at them. As Needy and Chip crawl out of the dirty swimming pool, Jennifer actually levitates herself out of the pool and confronts them. Jennifer and Needy argue, and Chip, with his last energy, stabs Jennifer through the stomach with a pool net's handle before she escapes through a nearby window. Needy watches as Chip dies in her arms.Later that evening, Needy, hell-bent on revenge, breaks into Jennifer's room, where she and her former best friend scuffle. In their fight, Needy removes the &quot;Best Friends Forever&quot; locket from her former friend's neck, and stabs Jennifer in the chest with a boxcutter, killing her in the process. However, the noise is heard by Jennifer's mother (Carrie Genzel), who finds Needy crouched over her daughter with the bloody boxcutter.Following this, Needy is taken to a mental institution. However, the scuffle with Jennifer resulted in her getting scratched and bitten. Supposedly, being bitten by Jennifer also caused some of her demon powers to be transferred to Needy... as well as her evil personality and attitude. Needy becomes vicious, ill-tempered, and anti-social with the orderlies and other residents. Isolated and abandoned by everyone she knows (nobody from her school, not even her own parents, have come to visit Needy at the hospital), she sets a plot in motion to escape.After a scuffle with an institution doctor, Needy is isolated in a cell, but that night she manages to use her new demon powers to levitate herself to an overhead window, where she kicks it out with her near-superhuman strength, before breaking through a nearby chain-link fence and escapes into the night.As she wanders down a rural road, she finds a watery runoff (which is where the nearby Devil Falls empty outs into), along with the knife that was used on Jennifer. Needy takes the knife. Flagging down a passing vehicle, she tells the driver that she's following a band, and that their last performance will soon occur.As the end credits roll, we are treated to amateur video of the band Low Shoulder, checking into a fancy hotel after a concert, and candidly doing things in their hotel room (drinking, smoking dope, snorting cocaine, among other debauched things). Eventually, the scene is shown in cutaways, of the band being savagely murdered by a blurred figure which enters through the front door. We then see police crime scene photos of the dead band members strewn around the hotel room, with the sacrificial knife in the chest of one of the band members.The final image of the movie shows security camera footage of a pale and evil-looking Needy walking down the hotel corridor, away from the band's room after killing all of them as revenge for what they did to Jennifer. Needy walks past a number of female band groupies as she walks out of the hotel.